tools/ktterm/README.md, before:

Kindle Touch Terminal
=====================

KTTerm is a terminal emulator for Kindle Touch device. It is based on the GTK+ terminal emulator
widget - [VTE](https://github.com/GNOME/vte).

![Screenshot](/tools/ktterm/screenshot.png?raw=true)


Keyboard shortcuts
------------------

* `Fn` + `F` - toggle full-screen mode
* `Fn` + `plus (+)` - increase font size
* `Fn` + `minus (-)` - decrease font size
* `Fn` + `0` - restore font size

These functions are available only with the build-in keyboard.


Keyboard toggle
---------------

It is possible to hide/show keyboard by the tap-and-hold action on the upper-right corner of the
KTTerm window. This action is available for build-in and Kindle on-board keyboard.


Compilation
-----------

Prior to compilation, one has to initialize Kindle development environment. How to achieve this,
see the [README](/README.md) file in the root directory of this repository. Then, do as follows:

	$ autoreconf --install
	$ mkdir build && cd build
	$ ../configure --host=armv7a-softfp-linux-gnueabi
	$ make kindle-relink

**Note:** Using the kindle-relink build target requires static libraries for json-c and VTE. It
is possible to compile KTTerm using standard build target, however such an action will produce
executable which may be incompatible with libraries present on the Kindle device.


Similar projects
----------------

1. [Kterm](http://www.fabiszewski.net/kindle-terminal/) - terminal emulator for Kindle Touch and
	 Paperwhite

Commit message:

Link against a proprietary lipc library

tools/ktterm/README.md, after:

Kindle Touch Terminal
=====================

KTTerm is a terminal emulator for Kindle Touch device. It is based on the GTK+ terminal emulator
widget - [VTE](https://github.com/GNOME/vte).

KTTerm supports standard `-e` option (available in all (?) terminal emulators), which can be used
to specify the program and its command line arguments to be run in the KTTerm window. If this
option is not given, the standard command line interpreter (sh) is launched.

![Screenshot](/tools/ktterm/screenshot.png?raw=true)


Keyboard shortcuts
------------------

* `Fn` + `F` - toggle full-screen mode
* `Fn` + `plus (+)` - increase font size
* `Fn` + `minus (-)` - decrease font size
* `Fn` + `0` - restore font size

These functions are available only with the build-in keyboard.


Keyboard toggle
---------------

It is possible to hide/show keyboard by the tap-and-hold action on the upper-right corner of the
KTTerm window. This action is available for build-in and Kindle on-board keyboard.


Compilation
-----------

Prior to compilation, one has to initialize Kindle development environment. How to achieve this,
see the [README](/README.md) file in the root directory of this repository. Then, do as follows:

	$ autoreconf --install
	$ mkdir build && cd build
	$ ../configure --enable-kindle-env --host=armv7a-softfp-linux-gnueabi
	$ make

**Note:** Enabling Kindle development environment during configuration requires static libraries
for json-c and VTE. It is possible to compile KTTerm using standard configuration, however such
an action might produce executable incompatible with libraries available on Kindle.

**Note²:** It is possible to link KTTerm against a proprietary lipc library using `--with-lipc`
flag during configuration. This feature is used for the on-board keyboard only and should be
considered as an experimental one (along with the on-board keyboard).


Similar projects
----------------

1. [Kterm](http://www.fabiszewski.net/kindle-terminal/) - terminal emulator for Kindle Touch and
	 Paperwhite
